Cell prerendering + Prerender routes with parameters (#5600)
redwoodjs/redwood: docs/docs/prerender.md

This will prerender your NotFoundPage to `404.html` in your dist folder. Note that there's no need to specify a path.

## Private Routes

For Private Routes, Redwood prerenders your Private Routes' `whileLoadingAuth` prop:

```jsx
<Private >
  // Loading is shown while we're checking to see if the user's logged in
  <Route path="/super-secret-admin-dashboard" page={SuperSecretAdminDashboard} name="ssad" whileLoadingAuth={() => <Loading />} prerender/>
</Private>
```

## Dynamic routes

Let's say you have a route like this

```jsx
<Route path="/blog-post/{id}" page={BlogPostPage} name="blogPost" prerender />
```

> To be able to prerender this route you need to let Redwood know what `id`s to use. You do this by creating a `BlogPostPage.renderData.js` file next to the page file itself (so next to `BlogPostPage.js` in this case). It should export a function called `routeParameters` that returns an array of objects with the path param name as the key, and the value for the parameter as the object value. A single Page component can be used for different routes. The name of the current route will be passed as an argument to `routeParameters` so you can return different route parameters depending on what route it is, if you need to. An example will hopefully make all this clearer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To be able to prerender this route you need to let Redwood know what `id`s to use. Why? Because when we are prerendering your pages - at build time - we don't know the full URL i.e. `site.com/blog-post/1` vs `site.com/blog-post/3`. It's up to you to decide whether you want to prerender _all_ of the ids, or if there's too many to do that, if you want to only prerender the most popular or most likely ones.

You do this by creating a `BlogPostPage.renderData.js` file next to the page file itself (so next to `BlogPostPage.js` in this case). It should export a function called `routeParameters` that returns an array of route params that you want to prerender with. 

A single Page component can be used for different routes too! The name of the current route will be passed as an argument to `routeParameters` so you can return different route parameters depending on what route it is, if you need to. An example will hopefully make all this clearer.
```

Author: I made some further changes to your suggested edits. Happy to keep tweaking if you want :)

For the example route above, all you need is this:

```js title="BlogPostPage.renderData.js"
export function routeParameters() {
  return [{ id: 1 }, { id: 2 }, { id: 3 }]
}
```

Of, if you wanted to get fancy

```js title="BlogPostPage.renderData.js"

> export function routeParameters(routeName) {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
export function routeParameters({ routeName }) {
```

Author: The destructured parameter name would actually just be `name` with the way I implemented it. So to keep it clear that it's the route's name (and not some other random name), I decided to not destructure and just refer to it as `route.name` when accessing it instead

  if (routeName === 'odd') {
    return [{ id: 1 }, { id: 3 }, { id: 5 }]
  } else {
    return [{ id: 2 }, { id: 4 }, { id: 6 }]
  }
}
```

> In these renderData scripts you have full access to your database using prisma and all your services, should you need it. You use `import { db } from '$api/src/lib/db'` to get access to the `db` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In these routeHook scripts you have full access to your database using prisma and all your services, should you need it. You use `import { db } from '$api/src/lib/db'` to get access to the `db` object.
```

Author: Done

> With the config above three separate pages will be written: `web/dist/blog-post/1.html`, `web/dist/blog-post/2.html`, `web/dist/blog-post/3.html`. If it's just three pages like this, it's no problem. But this easily and quickly explodes to thousands of pages, which will make your build process really slow, so please be careful with how many pages you prerender.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the config above three separate pages will be written: `web/dist/blog-post/1.html`, `web/dist/blog-post/2.html`, `web/dist/blog-post/3.html`. A word of warning - if it's a hanful of pages like this, it's no problem - but this can easily explodes to thousands of pages, which could slow down your build and deployments significantly.
```

Author: Thanks. I added a not about cost too. But maybe that was overkill. What do you think?

This will prerender your NotFoundPage to `404.html` in your dist folder. Note that there's no need to specify a path.

## Private Routes

For Private Routes, Redwood prerenders your Private Routes' `whileLoadingAuth` prop:

```jsx
<Private >
  // Loading is shown while we're checking to see if the user's logged in
  <Route path="/super-secret-admin-dashboard" page={SuperSecretAdminDashboard} name="ssad" whileLoadingAuth={() => <Loading />} prerender/>
</Private>
```

## Dynamic routes

Let's say you have a route like this

```jsx
<Route path="/blog-post/{id}" page={BlogPostPage} name="blogPost" prerender />
```

To be able to prerender this route you need to let Redwood know what `id`s to use. Why? Because when we are prerendering your pages - at build time - we don't know the full URL i.e. `site.com/blog-post/1` vs `site.com/blog-post/3`. It's up to you to decide whether you want to prerender _all_ of the ids, or if there are too many to do that, if you want to only prerender the most popular or most likely ones.

> You do this by creating a `BlogPostPage.routeHooks.js` file next to the page file itself (so next to `BlogPostPage.js` in this case). It should export a function called `routeParameters` that returns an array of objects with the path param name as the key, and the value for the parameter as the object value.

Reviewer 2: > with the path param name as the key, and the value for the parameter as the object value.

This is confusing. Maybe because we are describing an object or maybe its because "path param"  but then use "parameter" right after but I think this could be clearer

Reviewer: Yes I agree.

Author: Yeah, I wasn't super happy with the wording here... But Danny had a much better suggestion that I've now committed. Thanks Danny!

> You do this by creating a `BlogPostPage.routeHooks.js` file next to the page file itself (so next to `BlogPostPage.js` in this case). It should export a function called `routeParameters` that returns an array of objects with the path param name as the key, and the value for the parameter as the object value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You do this by creating a `BlogPostPage.routeHooks.js` file next to the page file itself (so next to `BlogPostPage.js` in this case). It should export a function called `routeParameters` that returns an array of objects that specify the route paramters that should be used for prerendering. 

So for example, for the route `/blogPost/{Id:Int}` - you would return `[ {id: 55}, {id: 77} ]` which would tell Redwood to prerender `/blogPost/55` and `/blogPost/77`
```

A single Page component can be used for different routes too! Metadata about the current route will be passed as an argument to `routeParameters` so you can return different route parameters depending on what route it is, if you need to. An example will hopefully make all this clearer.

For the example route above, all you need is this:

```js title="BlogPostPage.renderData.js"
export function routeParameters() {
  return [{ id: 1 }, { id: 2 }, { id: 3 }]
}
```

Or, if you wanted to get fancy

```js title="BlogPostPage.renderData.js"
export function routeParameters(route) {

>   if (route.name === 'odd') {

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// If we are reusing the BlogPostPage in multiple routes, e.g. /odd/{id} and /blogPost/{id}
// we can choose what parameters to pass to each route during prerendering
// highlight-next-line
  if (route.name === 'odd') {
```

    return [{ id: 1 }, { id: 3 }, { id: 5 }]
  } else {
    return [{ id: 2 }, { id: 4 }, { id: 6 }]
  }
}
```

> In these routeHooks scripts you have full access to your database using prisma and all your services, should you need it. You use `import { db } from '$api/src/lib/db'` to get access to the `db` object.

Reviewer 2: I think it might be work having an example with the db usage. Additionally, we should make it really clear that you need the `$` to import the db. That is something that could be easily missed.

Author: I added another example. One that uses the DB, and made a note about the import
